L-MARS: Legal Multi-Agent Workflow with
Orchestrated Reasoning and Agentic Search

arXiv:2509.00761v3 [cs.AI] 30 Mar 2026

Ziqi Wang∗
University of Southern California
zwang234@usc.edu

Boqin Yuan∗
University of California, San Diego
b4yuan@ucsd.edu

Abstract
We present L-MARS (Legal Multi-Agent Workflow with Orchestrated Reasoning
and Agentic Search), a multi-agent retrieval framework for grounded legal question
answering that decomposes queries into structured sub-problems, retrieves evidence
via agentic web search, filters results through a verification agent, and synthesizes
cited answers. Existing legal QA benchmarks test either closed-book reasoning or
retrieval over fixed corpora, but neither captures scenarios requiring current legal
information. We introduce LegalSearchQA, a 50-question benchmark across five
legal domains whose answers depend on recent developments that post-date model
training data. L-MARS achieves 96.0% accuracy in LegalSearchQA, a 38.0%
improvement over zero-shot (58.0%), while chain-of-thought prompting degrades
performance to 30.0%. On Bar Exam QA [28], a reasoning-focused benchmark of
594 bar examination questions, retrieval provides negligible gains (+0.7 percentage
points), consistent with prior findings. These results show that agentic retrieval
dramatically improves legal QA when tasks require up-to-date factual knowledge,
but the benefit is benchmark-dependent, underscoring the need for retrieval-focused
evaluation. Code and data: https://github.com/boqiny/L-MARS.

1

Introduction

Large language models (LLMs) such as GPT [1], Claude [3], and Gemini [4] are increasingly
applied to legal tasks including case law retrieval [26], statutory interpretation, and automated legal
assistance [2]. However, direct application often produces hallucinations [5, 27] where the model
states confidently incorrect legal facts. In legal contexts such errors carry real-world risk, as wrong
citations or outdated statutes can undermine credibility and affect decision-making.
Domain-specific fine-tuning [6] can help but requires frequent retraining as laws change, making it
impractical for continuously evolving domains. Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) [7] avoids
retraining by fetching relevant documents at inference time, but its effectiveness depends on retrieval
quality. Recent work has shown that on reasoning-intensive legal benchmarks, standard retrieval
pipelines barely improve downstream QA accuracy. On Bar Exam QA, even the best traditional
retriever improves GPT-4o-mini accuracy by only 0.5 percentage points over zero-shot [28].
We introduce L-MARS, a multi-agent retrieval framework that addresses these challenges through
structured agent orchestration. L-MARS combines online search via the Serper API [8], offline
retrieval using BM25 over local documents, and case law retrieval through the CourtListener API [9].
Unlike naive retrieve-and-generate pipelines, L-MARS employs a multi-agent workflow that decomposes queries into structured search intents, executes targeted retrieval, filters evidence through a
Judge Agent, and synthesizes grounded answers.
∗

Equal contribution.

Preprint.

Figure 1: Comparison of the two L-MARS operating modes. (a) Simple Mode: executes a single-pass
retrieval–summarization pipeline. (b) Multi-Turn Mode: adds Judge Agent–guided iterations with
sufficiency checks and query refinement.

L-MARS operates in two modes. In Simple Mode, a single-pass pipeline decomposes the query,
retrieves and filters evidence, and synthesizes a grounded answer. In Multi-Turn Mode, an iterative
loop enables the system to adaptively search, verify, and refine until an evidence sufficiency threshold
is met. In this work we evaluate Simple Mode to isolate the contribution of agent orchestration from
iterative refinement.
In legal practice, outdated information can lead to materially incorrect advice. Our results suggest
that retrieval is essential for legal QA tasks that depend on current facts, and may be important for
reliable deployment in domains where knowledge changes rapidly.
Our contributions are threefold. First, we introduce LegalSearchQA, a benchmark for legal QA
requiring post-training, time-sensitive knowledge. Second, we present L-MARS, a multi-agent
retrieval framework for grounded legal question answering. Third, we show empirically that retrieval
yields large gains only in retrieval-dependent settings, while chain-of-thought reasoning can degrade
performance when parametric knowledge is outdated. All prompts, evaluation scripts, and raw outputs
are released to ensure full reproducibility.

2

Related Work

Agentic RAG and Search Systems RAG grounds model output in external evidence to reduce
hallucination [7], and interleaving reasoning with retrieval [30, 10] further improves factual grounding.
Multi-agent frameworks [11, 12] enable role specialization and iterative critique, with recent agentic
RAG variants combining planning, verification, and retrieval for long-horizon tasks [31, 33]. On
the search side, Search-o1 and WebThinker [13, 14] integrate agentic search into reasoning models,
while OpenAI’s Deep Research [15] exposes a production-grade web-scale research loop. These
systems complement reasoning models [16, 17] that scale deliberation at test time through chain-ofthought prompting [18], self-consistency [19], verifier-based calibration [32], and dedicated reasoning
architectures [20, 21].
Legal AI and Benchmarks Legal AI evaluation spans benchmarks for reasoning [24], multi-task
NLU [22], Chinese legal knowledge [34], and pretraining data [23]. More recent work targets retrieval
and reasoning specifically: Bar Exam QA [28] captures realistic legal RAG settings where standard
retrieval fails, and LEXam [29] benchmarks multi-step legal reasoning across languages. On the
systems side, ChatLaw [35] explores multi-agent approaches for legal tasks. We note that many
LegalBench [24] subtasks are now saturated, with GPT-4o-mini achieving 100% on the rule_qa,
limiting their discriminative value for knowledge-intensive legal QA.
2

3

Methodology

3.1

Problem Formation

We formalize legal question answering as generating both a reasoning chain R and a final answer
a given a user query q, external retrieval results D, and optional user clarifications U . Each query
state is represented as (q, U, D), which evolves iteratively through the workflow. At each step, the
system decides whether (i) expand D by issuing new search queries, or (ii) terminate with a sufficient
answer. Formally, the system computes a mapping
(q, U, D) 7→ (R, a),
where R = {r1 , r2 , . . . , rT } is a sequence of reasoning steps interleaved with the retrieved
evidence, and a is the final response string. The Judge Agent makes a sufficiency decision
s ∈ {S UFFICIENT, I NSUFFICIENT} and refinement notes E guiding the next query state. The
loop terminates when s = S UFFICIENT or after M iterations, as illustrated in Figure 1.
3.2

Workflow and Agents Overview

Workflow L-MARS is a multi-agent workflow implemented in LangGraph with structured output
validation and tool use. The system employs a directed graph in which agents are represented as
nodes and the control flow is represented as edges with conditional routing. The workflow maintains
a centralized WorkflowState that tracks: (i) the evolving query representation, (ii) the accumulated
search results with metadata, (iii) the iteration history and refinement notes, and (iv) the intermediate
agent outputs. State transitions are deterministic and type-checked, ensuring reproducibility across
runs.
Agents The Query agent parses the user’s question into a structured query result. The
Search Agent executes tool calls to the retrieval backends and returns normalized SearchResult
objects (title, url, snippet, optional full content, source type). The Judge Agent performs evidence
sufficiency checks and an explicit checklist (factual support, jurisdiction match, temporal specificity,
and contradiction analysis). Summary Agent composes the final response with citations and rationale.
Detailed agent implementations can be found in the Appendix A.
3.3

Agentic Search

Online Search We adopt an agentic retrieval policy inspired by Search-o1[13], interleaving targeted web queries with stepwise reasoning rather than performing a single problem-oriented fetch.
Concretely, the Search Agent triggers retrieval when either (i) the Judge Agent flags a knowledge gap
(e.g. missing statute/case authority, date or jurisdiction ambiguity), or (ii) the query classifier predicts
that external evidence will reduce answer uncertainty. Once activated, the agent executes one of two
complementary search modes against Google Serper, as shown in Table 1 :
Basic Search (titles/snippets) parses organic results into a normalized schema (title, URL, site, date,
snippet). This mode is fast and used for query exploration, de-duplication, and document selection
under a strict token budget.
Enhanced Search (content extraction) uses the top-m URLs selected by the agent (default m=3),
then fetches page contents and PDFs with robust headers and timeouts. HTML is cleaned with
BeautifulSoup; PDFs are parsed with pdfplumber. To avoid flooding the context, we perform
a snippet-anchored extraction: given the search snippet, we locate the best-matching sentence in
the full text using a token-level F1 overlap and return a fixed window of the surrounding context
(2.5k chars). This preserves local evidence while discarding boilerplate and navigation chrome. The
extractor also normalizes whitespace, strips punctuation, and truncates long pages to a hard cap to
guarantee bounded latency.
Local RAG Indexing We also maintain a local retrieval index over user-provided documents.
Markdown files are segmented into overlapping windows of 500 characters with 100-character stride
and indexed using the BM25 ranking function [25]. At query time, the retriever returns the top-k
segments (default k = 5), enriched with document titles and section headers to preserve context. The
indexing process is dynamic: new files added to the inputs directory are automatically detected and
incorporated without requiring a system restart.
3

Table 1: Comparison of Basic vs. Enhanced (Deep) Search on the query “Can I work remotely in the
United States as an F1 student as of 2025?”
Dimension
Basic Search (Titles & Snippets)
Enhanced Search (Full Content)
Source Types

Interstride blog, Reddit, Quora

Interstride blog (full text), others truncated

Output Length

1,145 chars, 19 lines

4,154 chars, 15 lines

Example Result

“Even if you are working remotely...
must have work authorization.”

“Remote work for international students on F-1 visas: Any work done on
US soil requires authorization...”

Content Depth

Snippets only; limited context

Full article text (4k cap); snippetanchored window (2.5k chars)

Latency

Fast

Slower; scraping + parsing

Use Case

Quick exploration, de-duplication

Detailed evidence; grounding in authoritative text

CourtListener Integration To incorporate authoritative case law into the reasoning process, we
integrate the CourtListener Legal Search API as a tool, providing access to millions of judicial
opinions, oral arguments, and dockets curated by the Free Law Project. When enabled, the Search
Agent queries by party name, citation, docket number, or keyword. The API returns structured
metadata (case name, citation, court, filing date, opinion text), which we normalize into a uniform
schema. This integration allows the system to ground answers in both retrieved secondary sources
and primary case law to improve legal credibility.
3.4

L-MARS Operating Mode

Simple Mode The Simple Mode executes a single-pass pipeline that prioritizes minimal latency.
The Query Agent generates structured intents from the user question, which the Search Agent
uses to retrieve evidence from enabled sources (Serper web snippets, optional BM25 index, and
CourtListener). The Summary Agent then composes an answer with citations in one step.
Multi-Turn Mode The Multi-Turn mode adds an iterative search–judge–refine loop to improve
recall and reduce hallucinations. The Query Agent first proposes clarifying follow-ups; optional
user responses are folded into a structured query state. Each iteration generates targeted search
queries, runs deep search (top-3 with content), and invokes a deterministic Judge Agent (T =0)
that performs chain-of-thought analysis, source quality checks, and date/jurisdiction/contradiction
screening to decide sufficiency. If insufficient, the system refines the query state and repeats up to a
fixed maximum. A final Summary Agent composes the answer.
Judge Agent and Stopping Rule The Judge Agent runs with temperature = 0 to reduce variance
and improve reproducibility. Its prompt elicits three outputs: (i) a chain-of-thought style rationale,
(ii) a structured checklist decision on sufficiency, and (iii) missing-evidence directives that guide the
next refinement queries. The loop ends once the decision is made Sufficient or when the maximum
iteration limit is reached. In practice, we found the Judge Agent especially useful when search results
included unofficial forums (e.g., Reddit, Quora) instead of government domains; in such cases it
flagged insufficiency and steered subsequent searches toward more compelling, authoritative sources
such as government websites and official regulations.
We describe both operating modes and all three retrieval backends for completeness, as they form the
full L-MARS system available in our codebase. In our evaluation we use only Simple Mode with Serper web search, since this minimal configuration already achieves 96% accuracy on LegalSearchQA.
Local RAG indexing and CourtListener case law retrieval are available as optional backends for
practitioners working with proprietary document collections or case-specific research, but are not
exercised in our benchmark evaluation.
4

4

Experiments

4.1

Tasks and Datasets

LegalSearchQA Existing legal QA benchmarks test either closed-book reasoning on static exam
questions or retrieval over fixed corpora. Neither reflects the real-world setting where a legal professional needs current information, such as recently enacted statutes, updated regulatory thresholds,
or new court decisions, that was not available when the model was trained. To address this gap we
introduce LegalSearchQA, a 50-question multiple-choice benchmark designed to evaluate retrievalaugmented legal QA systems on current legal knowledge.
Each question has four answer choices and exactly one correct answer. Questions span five legal
domains: Tax, Corporate & Financial Regulation (13), Labor & Employment (11), Immigration
(9), Technology & Privacy (9), and Criminal, Drug & State Law (8). The benchmark targets three
categories of legal knowledge: status questions about the current state of laws, threshold questions
about specific numerical values such as dollar amounts or deadlines, and requirement questions about
what rules mandate. All questions were authored by the paper’s authors and verified against primary
legal authorities such as IRS.gov, USCIS.gov, SEC.gov, and Supreme Court opinions during March
2026. By construction, correct answers require information from 2024 to 2026 that is unlikely to
appear in model training data, making web retrieval essential. To reduce author bias, each question
is grounded in a verifiable primary legal source and the task is purely factual retrieval rather than
subjective interpretation, limiting degrees of freedom in answer labeling. While the absolute accuracy
of 96% is high, this reflects the benchmark’s design: questions are intentionally selected to isolate
retrieval-dependent knowledge where access to current information provides a clear advantage.
To further reduce potential bias, we release all questions with source citations, timestamps, and
verification notes. Each question is constructed to have a single unambiguous factual answer grounded
in primary legal sources (e.g., IRS, SEC, Federal Register). Because the task is factual rather than
interpretive, correctness can be independently verified without subjective judgment. The complete
dataset is available at https://huggingface.co/datasets/boqiny/LegalSearchQA.
Bar Exam QA We additionally evaluate on Bar Exam QA [28], a legal QA benchmark drawn
from the Reasoning-Focused Legal Retrieval Benchmark. The dataset consists of multistate bar
examination questions that test legal reasoning across core areas of U.S. law. We use the publicly
released Historical MBE subset of 594 questions with subject labels spanning six domains: Contracts
(113), Torts (112), Constitutional Law (95), Evidence (93), Real Property (92), and Criminal Law
(89).
The authors of Bar Exam QA showed that standard retrieval pipelines achieve very low recall on this
benchmark and their best retriever improves GPT-4o-mini accuracy by only 0.5 percentage points
over zero-shot. We include this benchmark to confirm that retrieval provides negligible gains on
reasoning-focused tasks. We note that the Historical MBE subset overlaps with the MMLU auxiliary
training set [36] and may inflate zero-shot baselines through memorization; we mitigate this by
focusing primary claims on LegalSearchQA, where memorization is not a factor.
4.2

Baselines and Experimental Conditions

We compare three conditions, all using GPT-4o-mini as the backbone model:
Zero-Shot The model answers directly with no retrieval and no explicit reasoning instructions. The
prompt presents the question and four choices, instructing the model to select a single answer letter.
Chain-of-Thought (CoT) The model is prompted to reason step-by-step: identify the legal issue,
recall the relevant rule, apply it to the facts, and eliminate incorrect options before selecting an answer.
No external retrieval is provided.
L-MARS (Simple Mode) The full L-MARS pipeline in single-pass mode: the Query Agent
decomposes the question into structured search intents, the Search Agent retrieves from Serper with
enhanced content extraction, and the Summary Agent synthesizes the final answer with citations. All
agents use GPT-4o-mini with T =0.
5

This experimental ladder isolates specific contributions: Zero-Shot to CoT tests whether reasoning
alone helps, and CoT to L-MARS tests whether agentic retrieval adds value beyond reasoning. We
leave evaluation of the Multi-Turn Mode to future work, as it targets open-ended legal research
questions where a single retrieval pass may not surface sufficient evidence, a setting not captured by
our current multiple-choice benchmarks.
While L-MARS includes multiple components, our evaluation isolates the contribution of retrieval
itself by comparing zero-shot against the full pipeline. Since Simple Mode excludes iterative refinement and Judge Agent loops, the observed improvements can be attributed primarily to structured
web retrieval rather than multi-turn reasoning.
4.3

Implementation Details

All conditions were evaluated using a standardized pipeline. For LegalSearchQA, we evaluated all 50
questions under each of the three conditions. For Bar Exam QA, we evaluated the full 594-question
subset under zero-shot and L-MARS conditions. For the zero-shot and CoT conditions, prompts
instruct the model to select a single answer letter (A–D). For L-MARS, all agents use GPT-4o-mini
with T =0; CourtListener integration was disabled since neither benchmark requires specific case
citations. On Bar Exam QA, we additionally tested L-MARS with the Tavily search backend as an
alternative to Serper. The complete evaluation pipeline, including prompts, scripts, and all results, is
available at https://github.com/boqiny/L-MARS.

5

Results

5.1

LegalSearchQA

Table 2 reports accuracy across three conditions on LegalSearchQA. L-MARS achieves 96.0%
accuracy, improving over zero-shot by 38 percentage points while maintaining moderate latency at
2.4s per question. Chain-of-thought prompting degrades performance from 58.0% to 30.0%, falling
below the 25% random baseline for four-choice questions. Without access to current information,
CoT causes the model to construct plausible but outdated rationales and arrive at wrong answers with
high confidence. We term this confident confabulation: the model recalls stale figures from prior
tax years or superseded regulations, then builds step-by-step justifications around them. L-MARS
rescued 19 questions that zero-shot answered incorrectly while regressing on none. We use a standard
legal reasoning CoT prompt following the issue-rule-application-conclusion (IRAC) structure. We
attribute the degradation to reliance on outdated parametric knowledge rather than prompt design, as
the model produces internally coherent reasoning from stale premises across all five domains. We
verified consistent degradation patterns with temperature T =0 across all five domains, suggesting the
effect is robust rather than an artifact of a single prompt configuration.
Table 2: Accuracy on LegalSearchQA (50 questions). All conditions use GPT-4o-mini.
Condition
Retrieval
Accuracy (%) Correct/Total Avg. Latency (s)
Zero-Shot
Chain-of-Thought
L-MARS (Simple)

None
None
Serper + agents

58.0
30.0
96.0

29/50
15/50
48/50

0.7
6.8
2.4

Figure 2 and Table 3 break down accuracy by legal domain. The largest gains appear in Tax,
Corporate & Financial Regulation, where L-MARS improves over zero-shot by 61.5 percentage
points. Questions in this domain ask for specific dollar amounts, filing deadlines, and regulatory
thresholds that changed in 2025 and 2026. Zero-shot accuracy here is only 30.8%, reflecting the
model’s inability to access post-training information; L-MARS reaches 92.3% by retrieving current
IRS and SEC sources. The smallest gains appear in Criminal, Drug & State Law, where zero-shot
already achieves 87.5% because many questions concern well-publicized events that likely entered
the model’s training data through news coverage. Notably, CoT falls below the random baseline in
three of five domains, confirming that reasoning from stale knowledge is worse than no reasoning at
all when current facts are required.
6

Figure 2: Per-domain accuracy on LegalSearchQA. L-MARS achieves near-perfect accuracy across
all domains. CoT falls below the 25% random baseline in three of five domains.
Table 3: Per-domain accuracy (%) on LegalSearchQA. ∆ is L-MARS gain over zero-shot.
Domain
N Zero-Shot CoT L-MARS
∆

5.2

Tax, Corporate & Financial
Labor & Employment
Technology & Privacy
Immigration
Criminal, Drug & State Law

13
11
9
9
8

30.8
63.6
55.6
66.7
87.5

15.4
18.2
44.4
22.2
62.5

92.3
100.0
100.0
88.9
100.0

+61.5
+36.4
+44.4
+22.2
+12.5

Overall

50

58.0

30.0

96.0

+38.0

Bar Exam QA

Figure 3 visualizes the contrast between the two benchmarks. On Bar Exam QA (Table 4), L-MARS
provides a negligible 0.7 point gain with Serper and a slight 0.8 point degradation with Tavily. Bar
Exam QA tests legal reasoning over hypothetical fact patterns whose answers follow from general
legal principles already in the model’s parameters, so web retrieval adds noise rather than signal. The
gap between a 38 point gain on LegalSearchQA and a 0.7 point gain on Bar Exam QA confirms that
the value of agentic retrieval depends on whether the task requires current information or abstract
reasoning.

Figure 3: Benchmark comparison. On retrieval-dependent LegalSearchQA, L-MARS gains 38
percentage points over zero-shot. On reasoning-focused Bar Exam QA, retrieval provides negligible
improvement.

7

Table 4: Accuracy on Bar Exam QA (594 questions). All conditions use GPT-4o-mini.
Condition
Acc. (%) Correct
Zero-Shot
L-MARS (Serper)
L-MARS (Tavily)

55.2
55.9
54.4

328/594
332/594
323/594

Prior work [28]:
GPT-4o-mini
+ Best retriever

49.7
50.2

–
–

Table 5: Per-subject accuracy (%) on Bar Exam
QA.
Subject
N
ZS L-MARS
Const. Law
Contracts
Criminal
Evidence
Real Prop.
Torts

95
113
89
93
92
112

81.1
46.9
43.8
54.8
47.8
57.1

76.8
52.2
41.6
61.3
50.0
53.6

Table 5 shows per-subject results. L-MARS with Serper yields modest gains on Contracts (+5.3
points) and Evidence (+6.5 points) but slight regressions on Constitutional Law and Torts. No subject
shows a large or consistent benefit from retrieval, reinforcing the conclusion that this benchmark
primarily tests reasoning ability rather than information access.
5.3

Error Analysis

L-MARS answered only two LegalSearchQA questions incorrectly. Q27 asked about H-1B weighted
selection details involving a nuanced procedural rule about wage-level assignment for multiple
registrations; the retrieved results did not surface the specific Federal Register provision. Q44 asked
for the exact effective date of T+1 settlement; search results discussed the policy broadly but missed
the precise date. Both errors share a pattern: the correct answer requires a specific fact buried in a
longer document, and snippet-level retrieval missed the critical sentence.
The CoT degradation deserves separate attention. On tax threshold questions, for instance, the model
recalls outdated dollar amounts from prior years and builds multi-step justifications around them.
This pattern is not unique to legal QA. In any domain where facts change faster than model training
cycles, prompting the model to reason more carefully can amplify rather than correct errors, because
the model reasons from wrong premises with greater conviction. This finding suggests caution when
deploying CoT in fast-changing domains without concurrent retrieval.
5.4

Ablation: Retrieval Depth

On a 50-question subsample of Bar Exam QA, we compared single-query web retrieval at varying
retrieval depths. Retrieving k=1 snippet achieved 66.0% accuracy, while k=5 and k=10 both
achieved 62.0%, suggesting that additional snippets introduce noise without improving accuracy on
reasoning-focused questions. We also compared basic search (snippets only) against enhanced deep
search (full content extraction) at k=5: both achieved 64.0%, but deep search incurred 40× higher
latency (30.4s vs 0.75s). These results motivated our use of basic search in Simple Mode, reserving
deep search for the Multi-Turn Mode where the Judge Agent can filter noisy content.

6

Conclusion

We presented L-MARS, a multi-agent retrieval framework for legal QA, and LegalSearchQA, a 50question benchmark requiring current legal knowledge that post-dates model training data. L-MARS
achieves 96.0% on LegalSearchQA, a 38 percentage point gain over zero-shot, while CoT degrades
accuracy to 30.0% through confident confabulation from stale knowledge. On reasoning-focused
Bar Exam QA, retrieval provides negligible gains, confirming that the value of agentic retrieval is
benchmark-dependent. These findings underscore the need for retrieval-focused legal benchmarks
and suggest caution when deploying CoT in fast-changing domains without concurrent retrieval.
Limitations LegalSearchQA contains 50 questions verified as of March 2026; the benchmark is
sufficient for demonstrating large effect sizes but limits per-domain statistical power, and answers may
become outdated as laws change. We evaluate only Simple Mode with web search; the Multi-Turn
Mode, local RAG indexing, and CourtListener integration are available in the released codebase
but not benchmarked here, as the simple configuration already demonstrates the core finding. Our
8

evaluation covers U.S. law in English with a single backbone model, and performance remains
bounded by search engine quality, as seen in the two errors where snippet-level retrieval missed
critical details buried in longer documents.

References
[1] Hurst, Aaron, Adam Lerer, Adam P. Goucher, Adam Perelman, Aditya Ramesh, Aidan Clark,
AJ Ostrow, Akila Welihinda, Alan Hayes, Alec Radford, et al. (2024). Gpt-4o system card.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.21276.
[2] Rincón-Riveros, Daniel A., Sergio M. Salazar-Molina, William A. Pinto-Cáceres, Sindy P.
Amaya, and Juan M. Calderon. (2021). Automation System Based on NLP for Legal Clinic
Assistance. IFAC-PapersOnLine.
[3] Anthropic. (2024). Introducing Claude 3.5 Sonnet. https://www.anthropic.com/news/
claude-3-5-sonnet.
[4] Gemini Team and DeepMind. (2024). Gemini 1.5: Unlocking Multimodal Understanding
Across Millions of Tokens of Context. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.05530.
[5] Ji, Ziwei, Nayeon Lee, Jason Fries, Tao Yu, and Pascale Fung. (2023). Survey of Hallucination
in Natural Language Generation. ACM Computing Surveys, 55(12):1–38.
[6] Chalkidis, Ilias, Manos Fergadiotis, Prodromos Malakasiotis, Nikolaos Aletras, and Ion Androutsopoulos. (2020). LEGAL-BERT: The Muppets straight out of Law School. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2010.02559.
[7] Lewis, Patrick, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman
Goyal, Heinrich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rocktäschel, Sebastian Riedel, and
Douwe Kiela. (2020). Retrieval-Augmented Generation for Knowledge-Intensive NLP Tasks.
In NeurIPS.
[8] Serper. (2024). Serper: Google Search API. https://serper.dev/. Accessed: 2025-08-21.
[9] Free Law Project. (2024). CourtListener API. https://www.courtlistener.com/api/
rest/v4/search/.
[10] Khattab, Omar, Keshav Santhanam, Xiang Lisa Li, David Hall, Percy Liang, Christopher Potts,
and Matei Zaharia. (2023). Demonstrate-Search-Predict: Composing retrieval and language
models for knowledge-intensive NLP. arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.14024.
[11] Wu, Qianfan, Gagan Bansal, Jingfeng Zhang, et al. (2023). AutoGen: Enabling Next-Gen LLM
Applications via Multi-Agent Conversation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.08155.
[12] LangChain. (2024). LangGraph: State-Driven Multi-Agent Workflows for LLM Applications.
https://www.langchain.com/langgraph.
[13] Li, Xiaoxi, Guanting Dong, Jiajie Jin, Yuyao Zhang, Yujia Zhou, Yutao Zhu, Peitian Zhang, and
Zhicheng Dou. (2025). Search-o1: Agentic Search-Enhanced Large Reasoning Models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2501.05366.
[14] Li, Xiaoxi, Jiajie Jin, Guanting Dong, Hongjin Qian, Yutao Zhu, Yongkang Wu, Ji-Rong Wen,
and Zhicheng Dou. (2025). WebThinker: Empowering Large Reasoning Models with Deep
Research Capability. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.21776.
[15] OpenAI. (2025).
Introducing Deep Research.
introducing-deep-research/.

https://openai.com/index/

[16] OpenAI. (2024). OpenAI o1 System Card. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.16720.
[17] OpenAI. (2025). OpenAI o3 and o4-mini System Card. https://openai.com/index/
o3-o4-mini-system-card/.
9

[18] Wei, Jason, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma, Brian Ichter, Fei Xia, Ed Chi,
Quoc Le, and Denny Zhou. (2023). Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large
Language Models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2201.11903.
[19] Wang, Xuezhi, Jason Wei, Dale Schuurmans, et al. (2022). Self-Consistency Improves Chainof-Thought Reasoning in Language Models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.11171.
[20] Qwen Team. (2024). QwQ: Reflect Deeply on the Boundaries of the Unknown. https:
//qwenlm.github.io/blog/qwq-32b-preview/.
[21] DeepSeek-AI. (2025). DeepSeek-R1: Incentivizing Reasoning Capability in LLMs via Reinforcement Learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.12948.
[22] Chalkidis, Ilias, Manos Fergadiotis, Prodromos Malakasiotis, Spyridon Spanakis, and Nikolaos
Aletras. (2022). LexGLUE: A Benchmark Dataset for Legal Language Understanding in English.
In ACL, pp. 4310–4330.
[23] Henderson, Peter, Massimiliano S. Krass, Lucy Zheng, et al. (2022). Pile of Law: Learning
Responsible Data Filtering from the Law and a 256GB Open-Source Legal Dataset. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2207.00220.
[24] Guha, Neel, Julian Nyarko, Daniel E. Ho, et al. (2023). LegalBench: A Collaboratively Built
Benchmark for Measuring Legal Reasoning in LLMs. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.11462.
[25] Robertson, Stephen and Hugo Zaragoza. (2009). The Probabilistic Relevance Framework:
BM25 and Beyond. Foundations and Trends in Information Retrieval, 3(4):333–389.
[26] Locke, Daniel and Guido Zuccon. (2022). Case law retrieval: problems, methods, challenges
and evaluations in the last 20 years. arXiv preprint arXiv:2202.07209.
[27] Xu, Ziwei, Sanjay Jain, and Mohan Kankanhalli. (2025). Hallucination is Inevitable: An Innate
Limitation of Large Language Models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.11817.
[28] Zheng, Lucia, Neel Guha, Javokhir Arifov, Sarah Zhang, Michal Skreta, Christopher D. Manning, Peter Henderson, and Daniel E. Ho. (2025). A Reasoning-Focused Legal Retrieval
Benchmark. In CSLAW ’25, pp. 169–193. ACM.
[29] Fan, Yu, Jingwei Ni, Jakob Merane, Etienne Salimbeni, Yang Tian, Yoan Hermstrüwer, Yinya
Huang, Mubashara Akhtar, Florian Geering, Oliver Dreyer, Daniel Brunner, Markus Leippold,
Mrinmaya Sachan, Alexander Stremitzer, Christoph Engel, Elliott Ash, and Joel Niklaus. (2025).
LEXam: Benchmarking Legal Reasoning on 340 Law Exams. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.12864.
[30] Yao, Shunyu, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan
Cao. (2023). ReAct: Synergizing Reasoning and Acting in Language Models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2210.03629.
[31] Singh, Aditi, Abul Ehtesham, Saket Kumar, and Tala Talaei Khoei. (2025). Agentic RetrievalAugmented Generation: A Survey on Agentic RAG. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.09136.
[32] Kadavath, Saurav, Tom Conerly, Amanda Askell, et al. (2022). Language Models (Mostly)
Know What They Know. arXiv preprint arXiv:2207.05221.
[33] Shinn, Noah, Federico Cassano, Edward Berman, Ashwin Gopinath, Karthik Narasimhan, and
Shunyu Yao. (2023). Reflexion: Language Agents with Verbal Reinforcement Learning. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2303.11366.
[34] Fei, Zhiwei, Xiaoyu Shen, Dawei Zhu, Fengzhe Zhou, Zhuo Han, Songyang Zhang, Kai Chen,
Zongwen Shen, and Jidong Ge. (2023). LawBench: Benchmarking Legal Knowledge of Large
Language Models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.16289.
[35] Cui, Jiaxi, Munan Ning, Zongjian Li, Bohua Chen, Yang Yan, Hao Li, Bin Ling, Yonghong Tian,
and Li Yuan. (2024). ChatLaw: A Multi-Agent Collaborative Legal Assistant with Knowledge
Graph Enhanced Mixture-of-Experts Large Language Model. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.16092.
[36] Hendrycks, Dan, Collin Burns, Steven Basart, Andy Zou, Mantas Mazeika, Dawn Song, and
Jacob Steinhardt. (2021). Measuring Massive Multitask Language Understanding. In ICLR.
10

Appendix
A

Agent Instructions
Query Agent
The Query Agent is a stateless pass-through that wraps the user
query into a structured QueryGeneration dataclass:
@dataclass
class QueryGeneration:
query: str
query_type: str = "web_search"
priority: str = "high"
class QueryAgent:
def build_query(self, user_query: str) -> QueryGeneration:
return QueryGeneration(query=user_query.strip())

Summary Agent
You are a bar exam expert. A user will provide retrieved legal
sources and a multiple-choice question. Use the retrieved sources
together with your legal knowledge to select the single best answer.
Rules:
1. Your response MUST start with exactly one letter on the first
line: A, B, C, or D.
2. Follow with a concise 1-2 sentence rationale citing the
controlling legal rule.
3. Bar exam questions test specific exceptions and nuances -- do
not just apply the most common general rule if the specific
facts call for an exception.
Response format:
[Letter]
[Brief rationale]
The user message is structured as:
Retrieved Evidence:
<concatenated search results with source, title, content>
Question:
<full MCQ with answer choices A-D>

Judge Agent System Prompt
You are a legal research quality judge for US bar exam questions.
You will receive a bar exam multiple-choice question and a list of
retrieved search result snippets. Your job is to decide whether the
retrieved evidence is sufficient to reliably answer the question.
"Sufficient" means: at least one result contains specific legal
rules, statutes, case holdings, or doctrinal exceptions that
directly address the core legal issue tested by the question -- not
just a restatement of the facts.
If the evidence is NOT sufficient, provide a better search query
that targets primary legal sources (e.g., specific rule names,
statute citations, or doctrine names) rather than generic question
text.
Respond with valid JSON only, no markdown fences:
{"sufficient": true_or_false, "reason": "one sentence",
"next_query": "refined query (omit if sufficient)"}
Pre-filtering: Before LLM evaluation, results matching any of
these patterns are deterministically removed at zero cost:
HTTP error, 403/404, Connection error, Request timed out,
JavaScript is disabled, No search results found, etc.

11

B

Case Study: Post-Training Knowledge Gap

We present two representative examples from LegalSearchQA where zero-shot and chain-of-thought
both fail due to outdated parametric knowledge, while L-MARS retrieves the correct current information.
Q1 (lsqa_001): Executive Order 14110 Status
Question: What is the current status of Executive Order 14110, the
Biden administration’s executive order on AI safety signed in
October 2023?
A. It remains in full effect and is being actively enforced
B. It was revoked by President Trump on January 20, 2025
C. It was partially amended but key provisions remain
D. It expired automatically after 12 months
Correct Answer: B

Zero-Shot Response (Incorrect)
Selected: A
The model’s parametric knowledge contains EO 14110 as an active,
enforceable order -- it has no information about the January 2025
revocation, which post-dates its training data.

Chain-of-Thought Response (Incorrect)
Selected: A
The model reasons step-by-step from stale knowledge: it recalls
that EO 14110 was signed in October 2023, notes that executive
orders do not expire automatically, and concludes it must still be
in effect. The reasoning is internally consistent but factually
wrong -- an example of "confident confabulation" from outdated
parametric memory.

L-MARS Response (Correct)
Selected: B
Executive Order 14110 has been revoked, as indicated by the sources
stating that President Trump took action to revoke it during his
final week in office. Therefore, it is no longer in effect.
Retrieved sources included whitehouse.gov and Federal Register
entries confirming revocation via EO 14148 on January 20, 2025.

Q2 (lsqa_002): 2025 Standard Deduction
Question: For tax year 2025, what is the standard deduction for a
single filer under age 65, after the One Big Beautiful Bill Act
amendments?
A. $14,600

B. $15,000

C. $15,350

D. $15,750

Correct Answer: D

12

Zero-Shot: C (Incorrect)

CoT: C (Incorrect)

L-MARS: D (Correct)

Zero-Shot selected C ($15,350) -- the model recalls an intermediate
figure from pre-OBBBA IRS projections but lacks knowledge of the
legislative amendment.
CoT selected C ($15,350) -- step-by-step reasoning reinforces the
wrong figure: the model recalls the 2024 standard deduction
($14,600), applies an estimated inflation adjustment, and arrives
at $15,350. The reasoning is plausible but based on stale data.
L-MARS selected D ($15,750) -- retrieved current IRS sources
confirming the One Big Beautiful Bill Act raised the 2025 standard
deduction to $15,750 for single filers.

B.1

Analysis

Both examples illustrate the same failure mode: the model’s parametric knowledge is confidently
wrong about post-training developments. In Q1, a major policy reversal (EO revocation) is invisible
to the model. In Q2, a legislative amendment changes a specific dollar figure that the model can only
approximate from outdated data.
Chain-of-thought prompting amplifies these failures rather than mitigating them. By encouraging the
model to reason step-by-step from stale premises, CoT produces internally coherent but factually
incorrect justifications. This “confident confabulation” effect explains why CoT accuracy (30.0%)
falls below even zero-shot (58.0%) on LegalSearchQA.
L-MARS resolves both cases by retrieving current authoritative sources (whitehouse.gov, IRS.gov)
and grounding the answer in retrieved evidence rather than parametric memory. The system’s ability
to access post-training information is the primary driver of its 38-percentage-point improvement over
zero-shot on this benchmark.

13

